README.md, before:

# tikzrenderer

# SETUP (verified on Ubuntu 16.04 LTS 64-bits)

1. Install lampp (abbreviation for Linux-Apache-MySql-Php-Perl) on a linux system.
   Download from https://www.apachefriends.org/download.html.
2. Configure lampp to run CGI scripts by changing `/opt/lampp/etc/httpd.conf`.
   It should say `Options ExecCGI` in the `<Directory "/opt/lampp/cgi-bin">` section.
3. Start Apache with `sudo /opt/lampp/lampp startapache`.
   Verify Apache works by entering "http://localhost" in the address bar of a web browser.
   Verify CGI works by following the directions in `cgi-bin/test-cgi`
   and entering "http://localhost/cgi-bin/test-cgi" in the address bar of a web browser.
4. Install the tikz renderer functionality with: 
```bash
   cd /opt/lampp/cgi-bin
   # Save whatever's there
   sudo tar czpf ../cgi.tgz *
   sudo rm -rf *
   # Retrieve the tikz renderer functionality
   sudo git clone https://github.com/ilikeserena/tikzrenderer.git ./
   # Restore what we saved before
   sudo tar xzpf ../cgi.tgz
   sudo rm ../cgi.tgz
```
5. Create relevant directories, copy .png files, and set permissions:
```bash
   cd /opt/lampp/htdocs
   sudo mkdir tikz
   sudo mkdir tikz/tmp
   sudo cp /opt/lampp/cgi-bin/*.png tikz/
   sudo chown -R daemon:daemon tikz
```
6. Install TIKZ software (Ubuntu):
```bash
   sudo apt install texlive-latex-base
   sudo apt install texlive-latex-extra
   sudo apt install pdf2svg
   sudo apt install lacheck
   sudo apt install imagemagick
```
7. Verify installation with the following address in a web browser:
   http://localhost/cgi-bin/tikztest.pl.
   It should show a page in which you can enter a tikz picture and submit it.
   For instance:
```latex
    \begin{tikzpicture}
    \draw (0,0) -- (1,1);
    \end{tikzpicture}
```
   As a result we should see a .png image and a .svg image (see next item if SVG does not work).
   
8. Add support for SVG to the web server if it doesn't work.
   Edit /opt/lampp/etc/httpd.conf and add in the `<IfModule mime_module>` section:
```
    AddType image/svg+xml svg svgz
    AddEncoding gzip svgz
```
   Restart Apache with `sudo /opt/lampp/lampp reloadapache`.
   Verify with the previous step (`tikztest.pl`) if .svg images work now.
   
9. Set up a cron job to get rid of spammy tikz requests.
   Create `/etc/cron.hourly/cleanup_tikz` with contents:
```bash
    #!/bin/bash
    logger "Running cleanup_tikz"
    find /opt/lampp/htdocs/tikz/tmp -mtime +0 -exec rm {} \;
    find /opt/lampp/htdocs/tikz -name "live_*" -mtime +0 -exec rm {} \;
    find /opt/lampp/htdocs/tikz -name "preview_*" -mtime +0 -exec rm {} \;
    find /opt/lampp/htdocs/tikz -name "work_*" -mtime +0 -exec rm {} \;
    find /opt/lampp/htdocs/tikz -name "tikztest_*" -mtime +0 -exec rm {} \;
```
   Set permissions with:
```bash
    sudo chmod a+x /etc/cron.hourly/cleanup_tikz
```
   Verify it works by checking `/var/log/syslog` that should show "Running cleanup_tikz" after an hour, which should remove any of the specified files that is at least a day old.
   
10. Configure to run Apache automatically.
```bash
    sudo ln -s /opt/lampp/lampp /etc/init.d/lampp
    sudo update-rc.d lampp start 80 3 5 . stop 30 0 1 2 6 .
```
   Verify by restarting the machine and checking if the `tikztest.pl` step still works.

Commit message:

Fixed IP references and added tikzlive.html

README.md, after:

# tikzrenderer

# SETUP (verified on Ubuntu 16.04 LTS 64-bits)

1. Install lampp (abbreviation for Linux-Apache-MySql-Php-Perl) on a linux system.
   Download from https://www.apachefriends.org/download.html.
2. Configure lampp to run CGI scripts by changing `/opt/lampp/etc/httpd.conf`.
   It should say `Options ExecCGI` in the `<Directory "/opt/lampp/cgi-bin">` section.
3. Start Apache with `sudo /opt/lampp/lampp startapache`.
   Verify Apache works by entering "http://localhost" in the address bar of a web browser.
   Verify CGI works by following the directions in `cgi-bin/test-cgi`
   and entering "http://localhost/cgi-bin/test-cgi" in the address bar of a web browser.
4. Install the tikz renderer functionality with: 
```bash
   cd /opt/lampp/cgi-bin
   # Save whatever's there
   sudo tar czpf ../cgi.tgz *
   sudo rm -rf *
   # Retrieve the tikz renderer functionality
   sudo git clone https://github.com/ilikeserena/tikzrenderer.git ./
   # Restore what we saved before
   sudo tar xzpf ../cgi.tgz
   sudo rm ../cgi.tgz
```
5. Create relevant directories, link files, and set permissions:
```bash
   cd /opt/lampp/htdocs
   sudo mkdir tikz
   sudo mkdir tikz/tmp
   sudo chown -R daemon:daemon tikz

   cd /opt/lampp/cgi-bin
   sudo ln *.png *.js tikzlive.html  tikz/
```
6. Install TIKZ software (Ubuntu):
```bash
   sudo apt install texlive-latex-base
   sudo apt install texlive-latex-extra
   sudo apt install pdf2svg
   sudo apt install lacheck
   sudo apt install imagemagick
```
7. Verify installation with the following address in a web browser:
   "http://localhost/cgi-bin/tikztest.pl".
   It should show a page in which you can enter a tikz picture and submit it.
   For instance:
```latex
    \begin{tikzpicture}
    \draw (0,0) -- (1,1);
    \end{tikzpicture}
```
   As a result we should see a .png image and a .svg image (see next item if SVG does not work).

   Alternatively, we can use:
   "http://localhost/tikz/tikzlive.html".
   It should show a live rendered .svg file that is updated whenever you stop typing for about a second.
   
8. Add support for SVG to the web server if it doesn't work.
   Edit /opt/lampp/etc/httpd.conf and add in the `<IfModule mime_module>` section:
```
    AddType image/svg+xml svg svgz
    AddEncoding gzip svgz
```
   Restart Apache with `sudo /opt/lampp/lampp reloadapache`.
   Verify with the previous step (`tikztest.pl`) if .svg images work now.
   
9. Set up a cron job to get rid of spammy tikz requests.
   Create `/etc/cron.hourly/cleanup_tikz` with contents:
```bash
    #!/bin/bash
    logger "Running cleanup_tikz"
    find /opt/lampp/htdocs/tikz/tmp -mtime +0 -exec rm {} \;
    find /opt/lampp/htdocs/tikz -name "live_*" -mtime +0 -exec rm {} \;
    find /opt/lampp/htdocs/tikz -name "preview_*" -mtime +0 -exec rm {} \;
    find /opt/lampp/htdocs/tikz -name "work_*" -mtime +0 -exec rm {} \;
    find /opt/lampp/htdocs/tikz -name "tikztest_*" -mtime +0 -exec rm {} \;
```
   Set permissions with:
```bash
    sudo chmod a+x /etc/cron.hourly/cleanup_tikz
```
   Verify it works by checking `/var/log/syslog` that should show "Running cleanup_tikz" after an hour, which should remove any of the specified files that is at least a day old.
   
10. Configure to run Apache automatically.
```bash
    sudo ln -s /opt/lampp/lampp /etc/init.d/lampp
    sudo update-rc.d lampp start 80 3 5 . stop 30 0 1 2 6 .
```
   Verify by restarting the machine and checking if the `tikztest.pl` step still works.
